YouTube, it's Chris. Welcome back to the
channel. In this guide, I'll help you
get the highest frames and lowest
latency out of Counter Strike 2 with
your PC. Here are the default settings
the game put me on. Now, before we start
looking at benchmarks, I do just want to
say that this game is horribly optimized
for 1% lows. I'm not sure if that's
because the developers have done some
backend to try to get the latency down
on this engine or I don't know if it's
because of the subt genuinely the Source
2 engine is completely cooked. My money
is on the Source 2 engine is completely
cooked, but this video is going to get a
little bit messy. Let's get started.
Benchmarks are tested with these specs.
Do not expect identical results on your
hardware. That said, you can expect
similar FPS and latency scaling with my
recommendations. These guides are GPU
focused, designed to reduce GPU load,
lower latency, and let your CPU push
maximum frame rate. Tests are done in
repeatable GPU bound scenarios for
consistency, but real world performance
may vary. I can't account for your CPU
RAM strength, tuning, or how the game
handles CPU load in live gameplay. If
the CPU expectations, check hardware
reviewer CPU game benchmarks. While I
test on high-end hardware, similar
scaling applies on most systems unless
your CPU bottlenecks. 1080p default 750
fps with the optimized setting. Even
with my card, we get 950 FPS. Pretty
nice. We've gone from 3.5 milliseconds
all the way down to 2.7 milliseconds.
And we have also lowered our GPU usage,
too. Default settings on 1440p 640 fps
up to 934 fps of 4.6 milliseconds input
lag all the way down to 2.8 milliseconds
input lag. 4K default settings at 420
fps all the way up to 750 fps. Input lag
from 6.4 milliseconds to 4.1
milliseconds. Pretty nice there. Let's
input the config. First step, click on
the start menu. Type in scripts.
Click on this one here.
Scroll down. Look for this setting here.
Turn it on so you can run PowerShell
scripts. Close this window. Go to a web
browser. Google free GitHub. Should be
the first thing that pops up. Click on
GitHub game configs. Scroll down here.
Look for the IWR where the IWR is. Click
this. This will copy the code and close
the web browser. Now
go to your start menu. Type in
PowerShell.
Right click Windows PowerShell. Run as
administrator. Paste the code here.
Either Ctrl +V or right click should do.
Should see the code here. Press enter.
Okay, we've got a nice list here. We
want to type number four. Then press
enter. It'll say run game wants to
generate config location. If you already
launched the game at some point, great.
If you've just downloaded it, haven't
launched it yet, launch the game, close
the game to do that first. Then come
back here, press enter.
We need to select program files steam
user data your ID 730 local and then the
config folder. So we'll go to C drive
program files 86 for Steam
user data.
This is your ID. If you've got a bunch
of different IDs here you've logged into
different accounts. If you're not really
sure, you could redo this script and
apply it to all folders if needed. At
the moment I've only got one account
logged in on Steam. So I'm going to
click on this. We need to go to 7:30
local and then select the config folder
and press select folder. That'll import
the config. Right now, I wasn't able to
automate disabling fidelity super
resolution for some reason. Um, no
matter what I did, so you will have to
turn that off in the game. We will talk
about these later. This is only for
advanced users and we will talk about
this at the end of the video. I don't
want most of you even considering doing
this.
What was done in the config? Not much to
be honest. I had to add a couple of
zeros for certain things so the config
would actually import. Every time you
launch the game, it will turn this back
to three no matter what I do, which is
quite annoying. So, you'll have to go in
the game and manually turn this off.
Now, could you just go ahead and boot
the game and turn everything low self?
Yes, there's nothing extra I can do
here, but at least this is some kind of
automation for you guys to make your
life easier. Let's head into the game.
If the config imported correctly, your
game settings should look like this.
We will need to go ahead and disable
fidelity effects super resolution
because we want to run native
resolution. So, put that to disabled
highest quality. That was the only thing
I wasn't unable to automate. Also,
you'll need to go ahead into your video
tab because it will open windowed by
default.
Go ahead and select full screen ideally
and then go ahead and set your
resolution refresh rate and go ahead and
apply the settings. Now, this game is
direct x11. If you are on 10, do not do
this. If you're on Windows 11, you can
actually play full screen windowed,
which is borderless windowed mode with
the same frames and the same latency.
Why? Because Windows has a great feature
called optimization for windowed game,
which will force hardware independent
flip, which is the same as actual full
screen. It's great, but please don't do
this on Windows 10. If you're on Windows
10, just run full screen. That said,
windowed mode will not work. So, if
you're going to use this with Windows
11, make sure it's always borderless
windowed mode or full screen windowed,
which is basically the same thing. For
this video, I'm just going to set it to
full screen. This is my resolution
refresh rate. It'll be completely
different on your machine, more than
likely. Now, if you're still GPU
bottleneck in the game, you can try
fidelity effect super resolution, which
is just FSR. It's kind of like DLSS. It
will run a lower resolution and upscale
it with AI and a sharpening filter. You
can give those a go if your GPU is very
very weak and your CPU can spit out more
frames. Obviously, another thing you can
do, a lot of CS:GO players do, they'll
play like a lower res or a stretch
resolution. You can give that a go again
as well if you want a few more frames.
Now, like I said before, this game is so
badly optimized for 1% lows that when
you boot the game, the developers are
actually screaming at you recommending
you to have VSYNC and G-Sync on, which I
think is a bit of a joke for a
competitive FPS game. Now, that coffee
isn't bad for input lag or anything
considering you've got everything set up
right for it, but it won't be as lower
input lag as just G-Sync off, VSYNC off,
and completely uncapped frame rate or
higher frame rate. Now, if you want to
see some G-Sync and VSSync input lag
tests done specifically on the
Counter-Strike engine, please check out
that input lag video. I really cover
that kind of stuff in depth. I'll also
mention that you need to use this launch
command if you do want to use third
party software to benchmark the game
frame view and the Nvidia app overlay
will work without this which is nice. So
you could technically benchmark with
that but if you want other kind of
overlays you have to run that and I'm
pretty sure you can't play certain game
modes with this on. There are other
launch options you can use but there's
really no point. High doesn't work
anymore if you want to do high. We'll
talk about that later. you're going to
have to use task manager or you're going
to have to use a script or you're going
to have to use process lasso. Um you can
do the no reflex launch option that's
getting talked a lot about on the
internet at the moment that will force
reflex alt entirely but is the same as
doing it in the in the game just turning
it off. So there's just no point. So I
just generally wouldn't bother with a
bunch of launch options. There's no
need. And they've also blocked a whole
bunch out as well. On the subject of the
game running very very bad. If you have
a fairly decent card,
you guys consider turning off reflex
entirely. It will boost your 1% lows.
But my concern is, and I'm not allowing
or going to leave the config like that
is, if you have a very weak GPU or very,
very, very high GPU usage. Say you have
a medium card and you're running ultra
settings instead of this, you're going
to want reflex on. Now, if you want to
do tests yourself and just make sure
that it's helping or it isn't helping,
please use the Frame View app. Download
it, install it, have it open while you
have your game open. Go and jump in a
real match in a real world scenario. Pin
your eyes on the PCL PC latency here.
Try enabled. Enable plus boost or
disabled. If disabled is not lowering
your latency much,
probably have it off because your 1%
lows will be better.
If your latency is worse and much worse,
please leave it enabled or enable plus
boost. As a general rule of thumb, you
always want enabled if you're completely
GPU bound. So, I would say like 90% no
GPU usage and you would want plus boost
if you're CPU bound. So, way under 90%
GPU usage. Plus boost will still lower
your latency if you're CPU bound. Now,
because this game is mostly CPUbound,
most people run low resolutions. Most
people don't have really, really, really
old weak cards now. Um, you know, and
the game engine runs fairly well. We've
left it on enable plus boost by default.
Here's a better description of it. I did
cover this more in depth in that latency
video. You can go check that out or have
a quick read of this. Now, now, as far
as the frame rate, the frame rate is
great in this game other than the 1%
lows. So, if you want to turn up
settings and you're not seeing your
frame rate come down, honestly, go for
it. I would personally be cranking up
these two, the textures and the
anastropic filtering. Another thing I
want all of you guys to really consider,
and regardless of how good your card is,
what settings you're using, please, or
even if you're just using reflex and you
think reflex is going to take care of
everything, it it won't as far as
latency. If you are generally speaking
over 90% GPU usage, it's not a good
thing. It will add quite a little bit of
latency. So, my recommendation is use my
MSI After Burner overlay. You can grab
it from my GitHub guide. It's in
Ultimate Windows Optimization Guide. You
can download the whole thing and grab it
there. If you guys want to know exactly
where it is, it's in installs and MSI
After Burner. It will install MSI After
Burner River Tuner and import the config
overlay for you. Boot up the game, play
a real match, not a test range, not with
bots. Play a real match, see what your
GPU usage is. As an example, I'm just
going to show you the menu here because
it's easier, but please test in a real
game. 100% GPU usage. That's not good.
What if we cap our frames? So, cap your
frames to where you can keep under 90%
GPU usage, right? We'll do that. Let's
come down to 92. Obviously, I'm just
using the menu scale here. So, if I go
about 400 FPS in game, this would be
about good. Maybe a tiny little bit
more. Maybe 400. So, that's going to be
completely different in a real match,
but please, this is going to help your
latency a lot. Even if you do have
reflex on, please cap your FPS to stay
around 90% GPU usage max. Now, if you've
lowered your settings, lowered your
resolution, or using FSR in game with a
lower resolution, and you're not getting
more frames, you're just CPU bottleneck
at that point. It is probably time to
upgrade CPU. But I'll be honest with
you, the game developers really need to
put more time and effort into optimizing
CPU scheduling and the whole engine is a
mess. I'm going to talk about that real
soon. Now, that's it for the video for
the general users. Please click off if
you're not a power user or you're not
willing to test things for yourself
because this game is so broken buggy.
There is scaling with doing some really
weird things, at least on high-end
systems. So, please, if you're just a
general user, you're not a power user,
and you're not willing to test some
things for yourself, please click off
the video. Now, I decided to test the
Vulcan launch command because you can
actually run this game in Vulcan, and I
believe that is the default it will run
in if you play on Linux. When I booted
up the game, it wasn't looking too good.
It was putting me in CPU copy, which is
the incorrect flip model, which is not
proper full screen. And this is not a
good flip model. You will get worse
frames and higher latency. So, I went
down a bit of a rabbit hole trying to
find out what was going on. Now, I don't
want to get too ind depth with flip
models here, but all you need to know is
you want to be running hardware legacy
flip, hardware independent flip,
hardware compos independent flipped.
They're the flip models that you want to
be in. Now, by default, all Vulcan games
will usually put everything in hardware
legacy flip. Same with OpenGL2. So, I
was wondering what the hell the
developers were were thinking, what
they're doing. Was it something that I
did wrong? So, I tried everything and I
thought, what if I force disable full
screen optimizations? And it's a little
bit complicated on Windows 11 nowadays.
Okay, there's a bunch of reg keys you
have to do, which is those ones. There's
also a flags I found from Gamear. We've
done that, too. Also, disable full
screen optimizations, right? And even
just in case, I went inv profile
inspector and tried it there with
setting Vulcan OpenGL to prefer native
and disable full screen optimizations.
That should do it, right? It didn't. It
works for every other game. Usually, you
don't need to do that much. Usually, you
only need to do a couple of regge keys
and sometimes a compatibility tab. That
is it. But, it didn't work. But anyway,
I went down a rabbit hole. I installed
Windows 10 and found the same exact
thing. So, it tells me that the game
developers decided to put this game in
CPU copy by default. What are they
thinking? I have no idea. They clearly
need to fix this. But there was
something more to it. And I end up
finding some kind of a temporary fix, I
guess. Guess what? In the Nvidia control
panel setting, now they have an option
for the preferred layer on DXGI swap
chain. Usually, and usually always,
you'd probably want on prefer native,
right? Which would usually force what
the game would be by default, which
would be actually legacy flip. But this
actually worked. So, I'm going to change
all my GitHub video scripts to just set
it to this just in case this happens
like in the future cuz usually you
always want to set native. But anyway,
this was the only thing that worked. If
I set the Vulcan OpenG present method to
prefer layer on DXGI swap chain, it
would actually force um independent
flip, which is basically full screen
optimization full screen, which is
actually the latency is totally fine.
Um, Legacy Flip is great, don't get me
wrong, but they patched the latency for
full screen optimizations after Windows
1709, so 1809, they patched it. So,
you'll find running everything in
independent flip and old tabing is much
more convenient. So, that was quite an
interesting one and that was a little
bit of a workound. So, the developers, I
don't know what they're thinking. Um,
but even auto, by the way, guys, I had
tried auto as well on here. auto would
still cause CPU copy. Not good. So, I
don't know what the developers are doing
there. They need to fix that. I think
Vulcan is sort of an afterthought, I
guess. So, I'm wondering what actually
Flip Mod runs in Linux. That that that
would be interesting. Although, with
Linux, you can disable the compositor,
but we're going down a bit of a rabbit
hole now. Anyway, once I fix the flip
model, thanks Volvo. I thought, let's
test Vulcan versus DirectX11.
And Vulcan runs much worse. It's not
even worth considering. Here's some
1440p results. You just saw the 1080p
results before. And here's the 4K
results. Vulcan just runs way worse. And
it's very strange because usually it's
the complete opposite when it comes to
other games. Usually Vulcan runs a fair
bit better. Great example is Doom 2016.
Probably really good example, but I've
seen many other games that generally
speaking you get more frames with
Vulcan. So I didn't really understand
this considering I'd installed Windows
10 at the time. I thought, hey, let's
just test Windows 10 versus Windows 11.
And yeah, like literally no difference
here other than slight benchmark
variation. So yeah, I mean there's no
real reason for you guys to be on 10
anymore. Honestly, there's many great
features on 11 like being able to run
high polling rate. Um being able to have
better HDR support, being able to
actually play borderless windowed mode
with a right flip model, the same
latency and the same FPS. So yeah, I
thought it was worth testing 10, but
there you go. They're the results there.
But you're probably saying, "Oh, Chris,
what about just DirectX11 the the normal
config on Windows 10 versus Windows 11?"
Well, pretty much it's the same thing
here. Although, what was interesting is
sometimes Windows 11 looked a little bit
better. So, that might have something to
do with the CPU, at least on my new CPU,
but you could argue that's within
benchmark variation here. Okay, what
about reflex? The bottom here, just look
at the 1% loads. Don't look at anything
else cuz the frame rate is pretty much
the same. The bottom here is on plus
boost, which is the default optic
config. If we turn reflex off in game,
1% lows are better. So if and the
latency's not really changed much. If
anything, it it's maybe a tiny little
bit higher, right? We gone from 4.18
milliseconds to 4.29 milliseconds. I
mean, that's because I have a good card
here, too. So I if I played on on this
system, I I would turn it off. That's
why I said before I'd want you guys to
check it. All right. So what about just
reflex on instead of on plus boost? Um
it's pretty much like the same. I mean,
it's slightly
worse, I guess, because it's it's fairly
CPU bound game. Um, but still the 1%
lows aren't that great. Um, and I
thought, well, you know how there's the
launch option for no reflex, cuz people
are carrying on about that. There's
literally no difference. Look at these
two. This one and this one, the middle
two middle, there's no difference. Um,
so you might as well just like not use
the launch command. just turn reflex off
in game if you're not like super GPU
bound and you've booted up frame view
and your lens is looking good when you
turn it off it's like close enough and
you want a bit of a smoother experience
slightly higher 1% lows these 1% lows
still aren't good though you're probably
thinking why did you test 4K with reflex
there because I have a 5090 and we need
to test in a GPU bound more GPUbound
situation okay that's why now this
game's so buggy I decided to test some
really weird things how about hags off
so if we to turn hags off We would go
into this menu here. Turn that off and
restart the PC. Now, I did get less FPS
here. Why did I test in 4K? Once again,
because Haggus is actually GPU related.
So, I wanted to test in 4K because it's
a GPU related setting. Now, what was
interesting here is, yeah, I got like
less FPS, but who cares, right? The 1%
lows went a little higher, but as you
can see here, the latency did come up,
too. So, test in your own machine. and
see what you prefer. Oh, and I forgot to
mention, I'm including my GPU usage in
all my guides now. So, on the left is
actually the latency and on the right is
the GPU usage. So, what about affinities
and hyperthreading and core one? Um, so
the game updated, had to do my redo my
test. Kind of annoying. And we were
getting slightly less FPS with the
update. Yay. Um, what if I just disable
SMT or hyperthreading um off within
Nvidia script? didn't really see too
much of a difference, but um yeah,
there's that. Um so what if we do that
in BIOS?
Um and it's pretty much the same thing,
right? No real difference. Maybe the FPS
came up, but I'm going to call that
benchmark variation. But that tells me
that this game engine isn't actually
optimized for modern CPUs, which is
really frustrating.
Now, I thought, what if we just leave
SMT and hyperthreading on and we disable
core one and thread one? Cuz a lot of
people talk about that in this game.
This is what that looks like. This game
engine is so weird, man. The scheduling
is messed up. We get lower latency,
slightly higher GPU usage, better 1%
lows, and more frames, not running core
1 and thread one. Then I thought, what
if I disable SMT with Infinities and
Core 1? What would that look like?
And that was even more interesting. Wow.
We're literally running on seven of my
eight cores without the threads at this
point. And the latency is lower, the 1%
lows are higher, and my overall frame
rate is higher. What is going on with
this game engine? By the way, guys, I
don't see this. I test this stuff on
other game engines, but I never see this
kind of stuff happen. So, the Source 2
engine is all kinds of messed up. Then I
thought, what if we go and disable SMT
hyperthreading in BIOS and just disable
core one? What would that look like?
I go into BIOS, I disable SMT
hyperthreading. And then in task
manager, I just turn call one off. And
there the results there. So, TLDDR, if
you want to try this, and I'll go over
testing these things and how to do this
later, Affinities is going to be your
best option overall because that way you
still have your threads and your other
core at least able to like run all the
background Windows stuff. So, you're not
pegging out the CPU too much cuz you
still have to run Windows in the
background, right, when you play games.
So, Affinity is going to be better off.
You're better off leaving BIOS. That's
always been the case. High priority
never usually does anything at all. Why
do I get lower latency and slightly
better numbers with high priority? I
have no idea. Now, if you use a launch
command high, it doesn't work. So,
you're going to have to do it with
process lasso or in task manager or with
some kind of a script like a command
prompt or powershell script. What if we
cap our FPS and what's the best FPS cap
method? So async is always going to add
latency because it creates a back bath,
but it can boost 1% lows. Now, it did
boost our 1% lows here, but it actually
gets to a point where it doesn't boost
anymore, and I will talk about that
soon. If I had to pick, ideally, I'd
probably just use in game cuz it's more
convenient. But as you can see, here's
the GPU usage, the latency between the
different caps. Personally, I would just
use the in-game cap cuz it's totally
fine.
The River Tuner's Async cap is known to
boost 1% lows. So, I thought maybe we
could cheese it. We'll go to 1K um at a
frame rate we could always definitely
maintain and cap it. See if the the you
know 1% lows would go higher and they're
just not. I'll just show you that async
cap in 4K again just to show you. It
seems to be like this game engine just
needs a lot of work with the CPU, man.
Like, it's so hard to get these 1% lows
to get better. So just in-game cap is
going to be your best bet.
Last but not least, and I don't usually
recommend this, but for some reason
instead of hardware independent flip,
which is full screen optimizations, if
you run this engine in legacy flip, you
get lower latency and slightly more FPS.
That's never ever ever usually the case.
But with this engine, I don't know, it
is. And it was repeatable for me at
least. So there's that. Now, I'll show
you guys how you can apply these things.
Um, if you're interested, but massive
disclaimer, it could potentially make
your game run way worse depending on
your specs and your hardware, right? Um,
and like things could change in the
future if they update the game and
actually optimize this engine better,
which I highly doubt. But anyway, if
you're a power user, you you've got a
good machine and you're willing to do
your own tests, how we can do some of
these things. I've got the list here of
things that at least were measurable on
my PC that could potentially help. So,
we'll leave the list up here. You want
to try hags off. Go to the settings
menu, system, display, graphics,
advanced graphics settings, hardware
acceler GPU scheduling. Turn it off. You
have to restart the PC. So, that's one
thing that might be worth a try. Next
thing, resizable bar off. Now, if you've
got an Nvidia card and you've got it on
in BIOS, it will actually be off by
default for the game by the driver. But
if you're stupid and you're forcing it
in the driver, please stop doing that.
Nvidia have their own hidden profiles
and it is actually disabled by default
even if you've got it in in bias for the
specific game. But if you're forcing it
in here, please turn it off.
You could disable it in bias, of course,
but why bother when you could use resiz
for other games where it really helps
your FPS. Now, if you've got an AMD
card, I don't know, try turning it off
in bias and see if it helps.
Um, and just do your own tests.
Reflex off is pretty self-explanatory.
No need to use the launch option. You
can just turn it off in game and you
don't even need to restart the game.
Now, full screen exclusive legacy flip.
Now, the easiest way to force this is
two steps. Step one, my GitHub guide.
You guys should be using it by now.
Let's go and grab that. If you're not
using my FMSI after burner installer
with overlay, you should because it will
show what flip model you're in, which is
very important. Now, in in the advanced
folder, if you double click on FSO, FSE,
right,
we've got two options here. FSO is the
default in Windows and FSE will force
exclusive full screen for any game. But
on Windows 11, you also need to use the
compatibility tab with this. So if you
want to revert at any time, you can just
press one and enter and that's going to
be the default window setting. But if
you want to try full screen exclusive
FSE, right, which will completely bypass
the compositor, press two, and then
press enter. Okay. And there's a little
bit of text warning about you may have
to do it in the game properties. We're
going to do that now, too. So we find
the XE file for the game. We right
click, we go properties, we go
compatibility, we go disable full screen
optimizations, and apply. Now, on
Windows 10, you can just use the script.
Then usually you actually don't need to
do this, but on Windows 11 for some
reason you need to do the script and
this open MSI After Burner, boot the
game. You may need to use allow 30 part
you will need to use allow third party
software in the launch commands for the
MSI After Burner to work just so you
know what flip model you're in. Now the
default if you or if you didn't do it
properly, you'll be in hardware
independent flip, which is still fine,
but that's full screen optimization.
That's not completely bypassing the
compositor. Now, if it worked properly,
it will say legacy flip. Okay. Now, keep
in mind, you can't run windowed
borderless mode with full screen
optimizations. Like, it's not going to
do legacy flip. Legacy flip will only
ever work in proper full screen. Just so
you guys know that. All right. Now, all
tabing is going to suck with this,
especially if you haven't got display
stream compression, especially if you're
using a capture card to clone. But, hey,
this game engine's weird, and I saw some
measurable differences. So, there's
that. Now, what else should you try if
you're a power user? The high priority.
Like I said, the launch command doesn't
work. So, we've got a couple of ways we
can do this. One with a script, which
I'm not going to make for you guys,
right? It's not This is only something
for power users. We could just open the
game, right click the XC file, go to set
priority, set it to high. That will
work. For some reason, the launch option
doesn't work. If you go check it, you
will see what I'm talking about. Now, if
you wanted to automate this and it's
getting annoying and you don't want to
make a custom script, which like I said,
I'm not going to make for you, try
process lasso. Another thing we've got
here is SMT hyperthreading completely
off with core one off. Now, if you have
got an Intel CPU with ECores, I'd
probably turn those off, too. All right.
Now, you're going to have to figure that
out on your own here. I don't have any
PC cores and it's not I don't have any
ecores, and it's not an Intel CPU. I've
only got cores and threads here. So you
would go set affinity
zero is call one and this is thread one.
So call core one thread one call two
thread two core three thread three.
Okay. So to disable the threads we would
simply select the second one. So we
would disable that one that one. That
one. That one. And you would just keep
going. That one that one. That one. That
one. If you're on an Intel system and
you've got um ecores and you haven't got
um sorry, yeah, ees and you've got
haven't got them off in BIOS, there'll
be a couple down here, you can do that
there. So that will disable the threads
and surprisingly any cheat actually
doesn't block us from doing this in the
game. That's kind of cool. Um so you
could, you know, automate it with
process lasso or script as well rather
than cuz just so you know guys, when you
change priority and affinity in here, if
you reboot the game, it gets reset to
default every time. So you have to come
in here and do it every time it gets
annoying. That's why I mentioned process
lasso or a script. Now, um that's only
the threads though. So, if we want to
disable core one as well, which like I
saw good scaling with it too. I saw kind
of scaling with like the game only just
running on like the cores without core
one. So, that would be literally us
running the game on seven cores and not
my top core. So, which would you know be
Yeah. So, that's it. So, now if you
wanted to automate this, like I said,
you could try it in process. It would
probably be the easiest for most of you.
Now, I'm not going to install it on my
own machine because I'm not not really a
fan of this program. If I if I was
playing CSGO, I'd personally make a
PowerShell script or a command prompt
script that would just like launch the
game, time out for 10 minutes, disable
the threads, disable for one, and set
the game in high priority, like after a
timeout of like 30 seconds when the game
booted. Um, but honestly, a script like
that is very difficult to make cuz
everyone has different calls, everyone
has different threads, some people have
e calls, so it's not something I can
really automate. So honestly for most of
you probably just try the free version
of process lasso. You can automate it in
there. It's pretty easy. I'll show you a
photo here. You can go ahead and you can
press like CPU affinity. Um and then you
can sue to set always on the game XD
file. So if process lesser was always
running in the background every time it
says sees every time it will see CS2
open it will just set those those values
for you automatically which is kind of
convenient. And it's honestly more
convenient than running a script cuz
sometimes you might forget to run the
script too. Here's a quick photo that I
took to show that high priority didn't
work, but you guys will be able to see
that yourself. Uh, for some reason, the
game just completely ignores it. And
game developers can do that sometimes.
They can completely ignore config
options and launch options if they
choose to code it that way. Just a heads
up, I got a bug with my game once when I
disabled the threads and core one with
affinity script. The game bugged out and
crashed and I got this message. You
might have that happen to you, but every
other time I kept trying, it was fine.
So that's just a heads up. Now, usually
these are complete placebo, it will
always make things run worse. But if a
game engine is completely buggy and you
know you've got high-end hardware where
you can afford to have some of these
features off like hags and rebar and and
reflex off and etc. It might be worth
trying. So like I said, full disclaimer.
Um and you know, you're going to have to
test for yourself on your own machine.
Uh, and that's why this is only really
for the power users and the high-end
machines for people that going to test
theirelves. That's it for the
Counter-Strike 2 video. Enjoy, guys.
I'll see you in the next one. Hope you
found the video helpful. Valve just need
to optimize this game properly. I don't
know if it's the sub tick rate that's
ruining it, but at the same time, like
it's not utilizing, it's a CPUbound game
and the engine is not utilizing modern
CPUs properly. Valve need to fix it.
Doesn't matter what you do to your
settings or your PC or anything. If code
is bad, code is bad. See you guys in the
next one. Bye. Optimizing game settings
and config files can only do so much.
Please consider going through this
GitHub guide with video to cover the
basic Windows and BIOS optimizations. If
hardware is limiting your performance,
please check out my build guide for
upgrade and PC build suggestions. Make
sure to update to the latest graphics
drivers or at least the recommended
version from the game developer or game
mentioned in driver patch notes from the
driver developer. The Nvidia app with
certain settings turned on will cause
frame rate loss. Turn off optimized
games and creative applications. Turn
off automatically optimized newly added
games and apps. Avoid using game filters
and statistics. As far as AMD drivers,
I've not seen any tests, so just be
cautious. Game launcher should have
logging, game overlay, hardware
acceleration, and cloud sync turned off.
Please do this for web browsers,
Spotify, Discord, or anything else open
while you play. Any monitoring or RGB
program causes frame rate loss even
closed. This includes Asus Armory Crate,
MSI Gigabyte, ASOC driver utilities,
NZXT Cam, Corsair IQ, Lee and Lee, L
Connect, and etc. uninstall if possible.
Services and drivers for these apps
still run even if the apps are closed.
GPUZ, hardware info, MSI After Burner,
and etc. can cause frame rate problems
when logging GPU power. Close these out
when gaming or turn off GPU power
logging in the settings. If you like
your Windows game, BIOS hardware or
stream setup fresh, tuned and optimized,
support me and book my PC service. All
links can be found in the description
below.